It had been 5 years. The phone call changed everything. I took a sip of my coffee and swallowed, “Miss Lee? We caught the culprit.” My cold, clammy hands dropped the cellphone onto the hard marble floor. All this time, I had been waiting for this moment, praying it would come faster. My mother’s death unavenged, he had been lurking in the society, a vile man blending into the society freely. What a joke. Shaking, I looked up at the picture on the wall of my pale mother and with nails digging into my palms, a relieved sensation overwhelmed me. Mother, I will watch him get put behind bars, rotting away for the rest of his life.
After appealing for trial and waiting for weeks, I grabbed my belongings and rushed out of the house. Entering the lift of the courthouse, I checked to see if anyone else was boarding. When there was no one in sight, I pressed the button and a red number four flashed. I tried collecting myself, looking at the reflection that was staring back at me and straightened my tie, dusting off any visible dust that was on my shoulders. Ding! It was time. I took a step, and realized I was not going to look back after this day.
Everyone in the courtroom was so well dressed. I was suddenly glad I had a tie and blazer on to look professional. The room was brightly lit, with a hint of lavender in the air. Comforting, I thought. Neither the prosecutors, attorneys nor the judge wore white wigs that were seen in movies. I spotted my aunt in the crowd sitting at the public gallery area and headed towards her. She patted the seat beside her after pulling me into a tight embrace and whispered, “I’m so sorry.” I gave her a light tap on the back and sighed. Ever since my mother’s death, my aunt tried the best she could to provide me a motherly figure to depend on. She was always very protective of me, and worried about my emotions when it came to dealing with my mother’s situation. That was until I came of age and rented a small apartment near my office. She did continue to care for me, not so much as I became an adult.
The female judge hit the gavel signaling trial was in session. I gave my fullest attention. This was not something I wanted to miss. Security guards brought out a man wearing an orange suit. I could recognize him anywhere, I would never forget my mother’s killer. It was the same face that was covered in blood on the day of the murder, one that belonged to the man I considered my father. “May the witness come forward,” the judge ordered. Heels belonging to my shoes were clicking, echoing through the courtroom as I brisk-walked to the witness stand.
Being the witness was not something I was proud of. Coming back home to your mother being stabbed by your own father was not something every child wanted. And it definitely was not what I wanted. The defense attorney started questioning me, and I replied to the best of my capabilities. I kept my glare on the vicious man throughout the whole time. He averted his eyes several times, but I did not buy it. Was he really remorseful or was it all an act to gain sympathy? The prosecutor then suggested a sentence of life imprisonment and was approved by the judge. I could see him tearing up at the corner, begging for a lighter sentence. I clutched the key chain gifted by my mother in my hands and tears welled up in my eyes. He finally got what he deserved. Hope you can see this from up there Mother.
Before leaving, I sauntered up to him and gave him a piece of tissue. “Why did you do it?” I enquired. He remained silent. “Drugs,” he replied.
“Death would’ve been too easy for you.”
I looked at my father one last time in the eye and turned, not wanting to show any sign of pity towards him. Losing my mother due to his drug addiction? Ridiculous!
